# Instruction on Running Program
Database is setup in config.js and is created when app.js is run. As the user can't edit data, this was the simplest way to store the data for now. There is a database that was used for the presentation contained in database.zip along with a databaseDump sql file. The database zip file should require setting up the database and running the makefile contained in there. That makefile reads data from .txt files and puts it into the database. This database is not required to be set up prior to running the website as the database is also set up inside of JavaScript files.

Since the project runs on Node.JS, Node.JS will need to be installed first. If not installed, follow these instructions (https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/#debian-and-ubuntu-based-linux-distributions). PostgreSql should also be installed. There are a few dependencies that are required for this project to run. These include ‘express’, ‘cors’, ‘ejs’, ‘pg’. One way to download these, on certain systems, is ‘npm install ______’. After these are installed, setup a database so there is a database server open on port 8010 (or if other port, update port in both JS files) and update password/login info on both app.js and config.js. The database on port 8010 does not need to be filled in with data. When running app.js, the first thing to happen is the database gets filled in.  From there, run app.js (can use environment like webstorm or use command ‘node app.js’) and go to localhost:3000 on a browser. This takes you to the home screen.

# Instructions on Using Program
When using our website, you start at the home page. On this page is a list of filters you can use to search for different animals. Click search when the filters you want are filled out, or leave them all blank to see all animals. After clicking search, the page displays the result of your search. The results is sorted alphabetically by name. Click the button next to “View Details Here” for the animal to view all the details about the animal. At any point in time, click the header at the top of the screen to return to the home page and start a new search.
